Let's go ahead and
let's get into the big picture and
let's just kind of break down
everything at a high level.
So this is the big picture and
I also call this module how
to impress your Angular
friends at a dinner party.
Or if you simply watched this module,
and then you're like peace out,
I'm going to top golf or I'm gonna go play
pickleball or whatever you're gonna do.
If you just remember this module
right here and if your boss says,
hey like I gave you the day off for
that workshop, what did you learn?
Just repeat this and
I think you'll be pretty good.
So I am giving you a Ferris Bueller
day off scenario here, but
you gotta pay attention to this module
if you're going to be convincing.
So as with anything,
the question is why Angular.
Why would given the kind of the plethora
of options that are available to us in
terms of front end frameworks even
no framework is a viable choice.
Why would somebody choose Angular?
And so just to clarify that I am
not going to talk about Angular
is awesome because this
framework is not awesome,
is that I believe just right at
the onset that when you look at
all of kind of the major
players in terms of frameworks,
I believe that they've pretty
much achieved functional parity.
And so I use Angular,
I've used React, I use view.
And so it's not going to be
that kind of a discussion.
But I do think that Angular does
bring some things to the table.
That depending on some
contextual circumstances,
I think it's really well suited for
a certain type of development.
So one of the big ones that I like
is that Angular follows common and
familiar enterprise patterns and
conventions.
And so if you are familiar with
a classical based language.
So you have a background in Java or
dotnet and you're familiar or
you're comfortable with a class based
approach with some of the classic design
patterns that Angular follows a lot of
those ideas and it's very familiar.
So Angular was one of the first
frameworks to go all in on TypeScript.
And I think that was a really
good move on their part,
because it allowed classical
bass developers to have parity
with languages that they
were already familiar with.
It is also a batteries included framework.
So one of the things that I like about
Angular is that instead of picking things
that are best in class and assembling
them, which there is a place for that.
Angular when you spin it up and
you run it, it comes with a router.
It comes with an HTTP client,
it comes with testing utilities
right out of the gates.
And so when you are spinning up a new
project, it reduces the barrier
to entry in terms of the things that
you have to kind of compose in to
get started that with Angular,
you can immediately get started.
And you have a router.
You have an HTTP client.
You have a testing framework that
comes with that as well with
testing utilities versus well,
what am I using for a router.
What am I using for HTTP like,
am I using Axios or
some other thing or
just even the built in HTTP client.
So this is prescriptive
without being restrictive.
And it reduces the amount of decisions
that you need to make up front.
It also ships with tooling.
So the Angular CLI we're going to
talk about this in a little bit,
but it has or it comes with some
pretty effective tooling for
accelerating your developer workflow.
And so we're going to use
the Angular CLI and by extension and
I'm not going to cover
it in this workshop,
you have norwall NX dev tools which
allows you to take that even further.
And so there's a lot of tooling that
allows you to be very effective
very quickly.
But also has a rich and
a vibrant ecosystem, which is nice.
So you have Angular material,
you have like ag grid has a really
great implementation for Angular.
And like I said a lot of frameworks
have parody but a lot of the things that
I wanna do in Angular, I find that there's
typically an implementation somewhere.
That's pretty good.
And it also has a proven track record.
So just Google itself uses Angular
internally for hundreds and
hundreds of products or products projects,
but I have also personally
implemented Angular in a number of fortune
500 companies and even smaller startups.
And so it is pretty battle tested and
proven in the enterprise.
This is probably the only thing that I'm
going to say about AngularJS one dot x.
And I'm only bringing this up
to provide or just some context
of when AngularJS came out
that I believe the predominant
framework at the time was
backbone which didn't really have
a lot of opinions about anything
it was just NVW, whatever.
NV Model view whatever in
the world you want it to be.
And with AngularJS 1.X it was
a little overwhelming at first,
but people realize that there's
not too many pieces on the board.
You have modules config routes.
You have a controller,
you have your template,
those were glued together via scope.
And then if you needed to extend
a controller, you did that with a service,
if you needed to extend a view,
you did that with a directive.
And so a lot of individuals they were able
to say, well, it's only eight pieces.
I can figure that out.
Well, with Angular it got even easier.
Is that you have modules, routes,
components, and services, and that's it.
And so we're going to step through each
one of these pieces, talk about them and
see how they all fit together.